README.md, before:

[![CI for specs](https://github.com/WebAssembly/spec/actions/workflows/ci-spec.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/WebAssembly/spec/actions/workflows/ci-spec.yml)
[![CI for interpreter & tests](https://github.com/WebAssembly/spec/actions/workflows/ci-interpreter.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/WebAssembly/spec/actions/workflows/ci-interpreter.yml)

# spec

This repository holds the sources for the WebAssembly draft specification
(to seed a future
[WebAssembly Working Group](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-new-work/2017Jun/0005.html)),
a reference implementation, and the official testsuite.

A formatted version of the spec is available here:
[webassembly.github.io/spec](https://webassembly.github.io/spec/),

Participation is welcome. Discussions about new features, significant semantic
changes, or any specification change likely to generate substantial discussion
should take place in
[the WebAssembly design repository](https://github.com/WebAssembly/design)
first, so that this spec repository can remain focused. And please follow the
[guidelines for contributing](Contributing.md).

# citing

For citing WebAssembly in LaTeX, use [this bibtex file](wasm-specs.bib).

Commit message:

Initial setup and overview for the JS Primitive Builtins Proposal.

README.md, after:

[![CI for specs](https://github.com/WebAssembly/js-primitive-builtins/actions/workflows/ci-spec.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/WebAssembly/js-primitive-builtins/actions/workflows/ci-spec.yml)
[![CI for interpreter & tests](https://github.com/WebAssembly/js-primitive-builtins/actions/workflows/ci-interpreter.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/WebAssembly/js-primitive-builtins/actions/workflows/ci-interpreter.yml)

# JS Primitive Builtins Proposal for WebAssembly

This repository is a clone of [github.com/WebAssembly/spec/](https://github.com/WebAssembly/spec/).
It is meant for discussion, prototype specification and implementation of a proposal to
add support for additional JS builtins to the JS embedding of WebAssembly.

* See the [overview](proposals/js-primitive-builtins/Overview.md) for a summary of the proposal.

* See the [modified spec](https://webassembly.github.io/js-primitive-builtins/) for details.

Original `README` from upstream repository follows...

# spec

This repository holds the sources for the WebAssembly draft specification
(to seed a future
[WebAssembly Working Group](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-new-work/2017Jun/0005.html)),
a reference implementation, and the official testsuite.

A formatted version of the spec is available here:
[webassembly.github.io/spec](https://webassembly.github.io/spec/),

Participation is welcome. Discussions about new features, significant semantic
changes, or any specification change likely to generate substantial discussion
should take place in
[the WebAssembly design repository](https://github.com/WebAssembly/design)
first, so that this spec repository can remain focused. And please follow the
[guidelines for contributing](Contributing.md).

# citing

For citing WebAssembly in LaTeX, use [this bibtex file](wasm-specs.bib).
